Add guidance/inputter (#450)
centrica-engineering/muon: docs/component-guidance/inputter.md

### Anatomy of the component

![Anatomy of the inputter](../images/inputter/inputter-anatomy.png)

#### Label

> Every single `muon-inputter` must have a label to identify the form control and should describe its purpose – which helps users understand. See https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/forms/labels/

Reviewer: An input needs a label, but the inputter does not (see headings)

Author: ```suggestion
An input needs a label to identify the form control and should describe its purpose – which helps users understand. See https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/forms/labels/
```

#### Tip detail

Each `muon-inputter`'s helper can have an optional tip added for further detail and in-context assistance. This is a short sentence that appears below the helper in the hierarchy of elements and is always used in conjunction with the helper.

#### Headings

![Headings](../images/inputter/inputter-headings.png)

This attribute is used for a group of checkboxes or radio buttons, where the label is adjacent to each `muon-inputter` checkbox or radio button.

#### Validation

![Validation](../images/inputter/inputter-validation.png)

This is used for error prevention. It checks the format of the inputted content against the required criteria. By default, it uses the minimal `isRequired`, but can vary depending on the `muon-inputter` type – for example, an Email type requires the format to contain an '@' symbol etc. The validations are optional and can be configured to requirements.

#### Placeholder

![Placeholder](../images/inputter/inputter-placeholder.png)

> This provides the user with an example of the expected input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This provides the user with an example of the expected input. The placeholder text disappears when the user starts typing.
```

Maybe I'm being too detailed by adding that?

#### Masks and separators

![Masks and seperators](../images/inputter/inputter-masks-seperators.png)

A mask can be used to show what can be entered. A separator is used with the mask to manipulate the inputted value if it needs to be in a specific format, such as a bank sort code.

### Number min/max

The Number type of `muon-inputter` can be formatted to have a minimum and maximum value. For example the minimum might be 0 and the maximum 10 (by default) so the user cannot enter a value higher or lower than this, nor can they increase/decrease the value outside of the range by using the arrows that appear when interacting with it.

---

> ### Types

Author: ```suggestion
### Different types of input
```

> This is a very versatile and expansive component used in forms – there are 15 types of `muon-inputter`:

Reviewer: These are not types, but just different inputs. The inputter comes with 2 types standard and reset

Author: ```suggestion
This is a very versatile and expansive component used in forms – there are 15 different inputs that can be chosen from within `muon-inputter`:
```

#### Text type inputs

![Text type inputs](../images/inputter/inputter-text-type-inputs.png)

#### Checkboxes

![Checkboxes](../images/inputter/inputter-checkboxes.png)

#### Radio buttons

![Radio buttons](../images/inputter/inputter-radiobuttons.png)

#### Select

The `muon-inputter` Select opens a native dropdown - not a customised one.

![Select](../images/inputter/inputter-select-states.png)

#### Helper and Tip text interaction states

![Helper and Tip text interaction states](../images/inputter/inputter-helperandtip.png)

---

### Accessibility

- Focus states and tabbing order throughout the whole form. Use `muon-cta` to submit.
- Colours and contrast meet or exceed WCAG 2.1 AA 
- Changing of shape on interactive states - don't rely on the use of colour alone.
- The minimum target size for interactions (44px) https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/target-size.html
- To make forms usable with screen readers, Labels should always be used to ask the question that the input value answers. The exception being that Labels for Checkboxes and Radios are the answers to a posed question in the parent heading.

---

### Content

> - Inputs use native autocompletes. They will resize when using that attribute.

Reviewer: resizing does not happen for the inputter with autocomplete

- Spellcheck should be disabled for names within a text input and allow for accented characters, spaces and special characters such as hyphens, commonly found in people's names.
- Consideration should be made for the right to left read order for internationalisation (eg. Arabic etc.) which can also affect the location of functional type icons within inputters.
- Don't use invisible elements.
- The input size correlates to its expected value, such as postcodes, telephone numbers and max length.

---

### Behaviour

> - Keyboard focus should tab through in the same order of appearance of the inputters.
> - Text entered into an inputter that is longer than the initial size of the field will behave like the browser's default.
> - The Search inputter will display a functional 'clear' icon at the opposite end to the search icon whilst text is being input, allowing the user to clear the contents if they wish.
> - Password should be hidden by default.
> - Clicking the functional icon on the Date should open the native datepicker calendar.
> - Textarea has a grab handle allowing the user to resize to view more of the text being entered but is  also scrollable.
> - Inputters default widths fit within the smallest viewport (320px wide)
> - By default inputter components stack in one column vertically and singly.
> - Radios and checkboxes are not selected by default leaving this choice to the user.

Author: ```suggestion
- Keyboard focus should tab through in the same order of appearance.
- Text entered that is longer than the initial size of the field will adopt the browser's default behaviour.
- The `Search` inputter will display a functional 'clear' icon (at the opposite end from the search icon) whilst text is being input – enabling the user to easily clear the inputter of search criteria.
- `Password` should be hidden by default.
- Clicking the functional icon on the `Date` should open the native date picker calendar.
- `Textarea` has a grab handle allowing the user to resize it and is also scrollable.
- Inputter widths fit within the smallest viewport (320px wide) and stack in one column vertically and singly by default.
- Radios and checkboxes are unselected by default leaving this choice to the user.
```

---

### Best practice

> #### Do

Reviewer: Extremely long list - can there be a way to break this down?

Author: I've tried to make it more concise but not much I think that can be taken away without losing some meaning?

> - Only use the specified text type (eg. Text, Email etc.)

Reviewer: Not sure if I understand what you mean by this?

Author: I think this was to discourage misuse, for example, of a `Text` inputter for obtaining a `Tel` phone number etc.

- Use the autocomplete attribute
- Base the width of input on the expected length of the input
- Always include a label and keep them concise
- Make labels easy to read and understand
- Keep the heading/legend short
- Associate every radio button with its label using ID & for attributes
- Consider using a Select for more than 5 radio buttons (but remember this effectively hides options)
- Use only one label with each checkbox
- If adding a "Please Select" option then add an empty value="" attribute
- Use headings to introduce a set of checkboxes or radio buttons
- Keep Helper text to one line
- Use Helper text to explain why info is needed

> - Use Helper text to clarify the meaning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I would remove this line as it's fairly similar to the previous one, will make the list shorter :)

- Use Tip text for more context in conjunction with a helper, for explanation or as a prompt
- Use Placeholder text to provide an example of the expected input into a field
- Use Validation to assist the customer to identify errors when entering information and how they might correct it

> - Use combinations of validation types where required (`isRequired`, `isNumber`, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use combinations of validation types where needed (`isRequired`, `isNumber`, etc.)
```

changed _required_ to _needed_ to avoid repetition and confusion with the meaning of the word that relates to the `isRequired` validation

> - Use validation only when it is required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Is it a repetition of the previous line?
